# Title: Enterprise Solution  - Changing The Enterprise Back Office Game
# Overview and Origin
* **_Name of the Company_** - Oracle
* **_When was the company incorporated_** – 1977
* **_Who are the founders of the company_** – Larry Ellison, Bob Miner, Ed Oates
* **_How did the idea for the company (or project) come about_** – Larry Ellison co-founded Oracle Corporation in 1977 with Bob Miner and Ed Oates under the name Software Development Laboratories (SDL).  Ellison took inspiration from a 1970 paper written by Edgar F.Codd – a computer scientist working at IBM – on relational database management systems, IBM System R database, this was the first database to use Structured Query Language aka SQL. (Wikipedia, 2022).  When Ellison read about it, he believed that relational databases would offer tremendous benefits to enterprises.  Evan at it’s most basis application, companies could use relational databases to quickly add and retrieve data about everything from product prices to customer histories. E.F. Codd and IBM turned down Oracle’s request to build a compatible  product, so Ellison decided that he and the companies other founders would build competition for IBM. (Financehill, 2022)
* **_How is the company funded and how much funding have they received_** - Oracle didn’t go public until nearly a decade after its founding. The company’s initial public offering took place on March 12, 1986. Oracle put 2.1 million shares up for sale at $15 each during the IPO (Financehill, 2022)
# Business Activities
* **_What specific financial problem is the company or project trying to solve_** – Oracle sought out to provide a solution for companies of any size to store and query company relevant data information for a variety of business activities from sales to operations.  As a result of successfully achieving this main goal, Oracle over the years has been able to add additional business utilities on top of the fundamental relational database product offering to further service their clients.  
By 2009, the offering extended to supply chain management, human resource management, warehouse management, customer relationship management, call center services, product lifecycle management, and many other areas.  In February 2007, Oracle released Oracle E-Business Suite – a bundling of several Oracle Applications. (Wikipedia, Oracle Applications, 2022).  In September 2010, Oracle introduced Oracle Fusion Applications, a suite of applications built on Oracle Cloud that includes cloud-based applications for enterprise performance management, supply chain management and manufacturing, human capital management and customer experience. (Wikipedia, Oracle Fusion Applications, 2022)
By combining all of these functions, each application runs in the cloud and shares one underlying platform that allows data to be shared amongst them.  Through the combination of data sharing, Oracle has positioned its product to provide artificial intelligence from everything from automated PO generation, billing invoices to automated digital marketing campaigns via robotic process automation.  In summary, Oracle has enriched the possibilities of increasing operational efficiencies and overall profitability by a variety of ways through the use of artificial intelligence via tools like RPA and adaptive machine learning.
* **_Who is the company’s intended customer_** – Any business that needs a database to store operational costs, revenue information for financial reporting, human resource management, procurement management etc.  
* **_Market size_** – Global Spending on Enterprise Software is estimated at 675bn USD for 2022 (Vailshery, 2022)
* **_What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer_** - Both Google and Amazon are fantastic at collecting and delivering data for enterprise customers (to be realistic, data is the underpinning of both cloud companies’ business models), but only Oracle Cloud has the ability to apply advanced machine learning technologies to data in order to sift through today’s massive datasets and deliver instant, relevant findings that truly matter. (Brull, 2019).  
* **_What is the unfair advantage they utilize_** - Due to Oracle’s large legacy product market share, they are able to scale full stack product offerings on their software, platform and infrastructure as a service to their customers.  By offering additional functionality on their  cloud ERP option, Oracle is able to retain and increase market share to their new product and software as a service platform. 
Oracle ERP’s cloud solution, Oracle Fusion, uses Oracle Cloud infrastructure as a paid subscription service.  Customers are no longer required to buy on prem servers to use Oracle ERP solution.  Oracle Fusion application is optimized to Oracle’s cloud infrastructure providing companies that leverage Oracle’s ERP systems with the peace of mind they can upgrade to something they are used to, in addition to leveraging new artificial intelligence features.
##Landscape:
* **_What domain of the financial industry is the company in_** – Oracle provided back-office operations solutions for all types of businesses.
* **_What have been the major trends and innovations of this domain over the last 5-10 years_** - I believe the major trends in this domain over the last 5 to 10 years would be the artificial intelligence aspects of things.  Oracle and many of its competitors have always provided a great back-end data solutions.  The trend is now to leverage that database knowledge to provide business with automated RPAs to reduce time spent on mundane back-office operations for all departments.  In addition to this, modeling tool utilities have been developed to enhance business intelligence for management to make better informed decisions based on company and market data.
* **_What are the other major companies in this domain_** – SAP, Microsoft, Sage, Infor, Epicor, IFS, Acumatica, SalesPad
## Results
* **_What has been the business impact of this company so far_** – Oracle has and will continue to provide thousands of business a means to manager their business operations.  I believe the advancements in business intelligence will help business make better decisions on managing their finite resources to turn a better profit for the benefit of both themselves and their stakeholders.
* **_What are some of the core metrics that companies in this domain user to measure success_** – Revenue Growth, Revenue Per Client, Profit Margin, Client Retention Rate, Customer Satisfaction
* Oracle Fiscal 2021 Full Year Financial Results - Fiscal year 2022 GAAP operating income was $10.9 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 26%. Non-GAAP operating income was $19.6 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 46%. GAAP net income was $6.7 billion, while non-GAAP net income was $13.7 billion. GAAP earnings per share was $2.41, while non-GAAP earnings per share was $4.90 (Oracle Announces Fiscal 2022 Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Full Year Financial Results, 2022).   
* **_How is Oracle performing relative to competitors in the ERP industry_** – Surprisingly, Oracle isn’t doing as well in the ERP market has I thought. ERP Market Share, Size and Trends Report states Oracle ranks 5th with a 5.1% share of the market.  The market leader is Microsoft Dynamics at 31.5% market share followed by SAP at 11.8%, Deltek at 8.1% and Sage at 5.1%.  (Davis, 2022)
##Recommendations
* **_Product or Service Recommendations for Oracle to gain market share_** – There is little doubt that Oracle has the database backend of things down to a science.  I find the easier the front end is for users, the better the adoption.  Oracle should look to lead the industry as the best User Experience offering in the industry.  This will both appease current users and attract new users to adopt their ERP offering.  The more their products are mobile adaptive and process automated, the friendlier the product can be for both small business and big firm resources.   
